Add support for `nameof` for open generic types, first class span implicit conversions, and implicit lambda parameters with modifiers (#44641)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/whats-new/csharp-14.md

You can find any breaking changes introduced in C# 14 in our article on [breaking changes](~/_roslyn/docs/compilers/CSharp/Compiler%20Breaking%20Changes%20-%20DotNet%2010.md).

[!INCLUDE [released-version-feedback](./includes/released-feedback.md)]

## The `field` keyword

The token `field` enables you to write a property accessor body without declaring an explicit backing field. The token `field` is replaced with a compiler synthesized backing field.

For example, previously, if you wanted to ensure that a `string` property couldn't be set to `null`, you had to declare a backing field and implement both accessors:

```csharp
private string _msg;
public string Message
{
    get => _msg;
    set
    {
        if (value is null) throw new NullArgumentException(nameof(value));
        _msg = value;
    }
}
```

You can now simplify your code to:

```csharp
public string Message
{
    get;
    set
    {

>         field = (value is not null) ? value : throw new NullArgumentException(nameof(value));

Reviewer: How about using the `??` syntax here?

```suggestion
        field = value ?? throw new ArgumentNullException(nameof(value));
```

You could use it in the before example too. Both examples could then have expression bodies (i.e. `set => field ?? ...`).

Also, the exception type is `ArgumentNullException`, not `NullArgumentException`.

    }
}
```

You can declare a body for one or both accessors for a field backed property.

There's a potential breaking change or confusion reading code in types that also include a symbol named `field`. You can use `@field` or `this.field` to disambiguate between the `field` keyword and the identifier, or you can rename the current `field` symbol to provide more distinction.

[!INCLUDE[field-preview](../includes/field-preview.md)]

If you try this feature and have feedback, comment on the [feature issue](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/issues/140) in the `csharplang` repository.

The [`field`](../language-reference/keywords/field.md) contextual keyword is in C# 13 as a preview feature. You can try it if you're using .NET 9 and C# 13 to provide [feedback](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/issues/140).

## Implicit span conversions

> C# 14 introduces first-class support for <xref:System.Span`1?displayProperty=fullName> and <xref:System.ReadOnlySpan`1?displayProperty=fullName> in the language. This support involves new implicit conversions allowing more natural programming with these integral types.

Author: Let's remove integral to avoid confusion with integer types.

```suggestion
C# 14 introduces first-class support for <xref:System.Span`1?displayProperty=fullName> and <xref:System.ReadOnlySpan`1?displayProperty=fullName> in the language. This support involves new implicit conversions allowing more natural programming with these types.
```

---
title: What's new in C# 14
description: Get an overview of the new features in C# 14. C# 14 ships with .NET 10.
ms.date: 02/04/2025
ms.topic: whats-new
---
# What's new in C# 14

C# 14 includes the following new features. You can try these features using the latest [Visual Studio 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/preview/) version or the [.NET 10 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet):

> - [`nameof` supports unbound generic types](#unbound-generic-types-and-nameof)

Reviewer 2: Missing implicit span conversion in list.

> C# 14 includes the [`field`](#the-field-keyword) contextual keyword as a preview feature.

Reviewer 2: This is just a normal preview feature I think. Not sure why it isn't just part of the list. We expect to release it in C# 14.

C# 14 is supported on **.NET 10**. For more information, see [C# language versioning](../language-reference/configure-language-version.md).

You can download the latest .NET 10 SDK from the [.NET downloads page](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download). You can also download [Visual Studio 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/), which includes the .NET 10 SDK.

New features are added to the "What's new in C#" page when they're available in public preview releases. The [working set](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/blob/main/docs/Language%20Feature%20Status.md#working-set) section of the [roslyn feature status page](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/blob/main/docs/Language%20Feature%20Status.md) tracks when upcoming features are merged into the main branch.

You can find any breaking changes introduced in C# 14 in our article on [breaking changes](~/_roslyn/docs/compilers/CSharp/Compiler%20Breaking%20Changes%20-%20DotNet%2010.md).

[!INCLUDE [released-version-feedback](./includes/released-feedback.md)]

## The `field` keyword

> The [`field`](../language-reference/keywords/field.md) contextual keyword is in C# 13 as a preview feature. The token `field` accesses the compiler synthesized backing field in a property accessor. It enables you to write an accessor body without declaring an explicit backing field in your type declaration. You can declare a body for one or both accessors for a field backed property.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [`field`](../language-reference/keywords/field.md) contextual keyword is in C# 14 as a preview feature. The token `field` accesses the compiler-synthesized backing field in a property accessor. It enables you to write an accessor body without declaring an explicit backing field in your type declaration. You can declare a body for one or both accessors for a field backed property.
```

Reviewer 2: I'd like to see us go a little deeper into `field` since it will be one of the marquee features.

```suggestion
The token `field` enables you to write a property accessor body without declaring an explicit backing field. `field` is replaced with a compiler synthesized backing field.

If you previously wrote:

```c#
Example
```

You can now simplify your code to:

```c#
Example
```
You can declare a body for one or both accessors for a field backed property.

The [`field`](../language-reference/keywords/field.md) contextual keyword also appeared in C# 13 as a preview feature.
```

Author: I made edits to address both these comments. (The suggestions were munged a bit, so didn't use them.)

> The `field` feature is released as a preview feature. We want to learn from your experiences using it. There's a potential breaking change or confusion reading code in types that also include a field named `field`. You can use `@field` or `this.field` to disambiguate between the `field` keyword and the identifier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There's a potential breaking change or confusion reading code in types that also include a symbol named `field`. You can use `@field` or `this.field` to disambiguate between the `field` keyword and the identifier, or you can rename the current `field` symbol to provide more distinction.
```

[!INCLUDE[field-preview](../includes/field-preview.md)]

> If you try this feature and have feedback, add it to the [feature issue](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/issues/140) in the `csharplang` repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you try this feature and have feedback, comment on the [feature issue](https://github.com/dotnet/csharplang/issues/140) in the `csharplang` repository.
```

> ## Implicit span conversions

Reviewer 2: We need to develop a plan for what happens when we rename a feature between inception and release. I like your new name much better, but wonder if we lose continuity if we don't add it to the Feature Status page. And AKA in the first column?

Obviously, we need to include Julien in that. This is a good example for us to work with.

> C# 14 introduces first-class support for <xref:System.Span`1?displayProperty=fullName> and <xref:System.ReadOnlySpan`1?displayProperty=fullName> in the language. This support involves new implicit conversions allowing more natural programming with these integral types.

Reviewer 2: I like that you use the feature status name immediately, but it is subtle.

> `Span<T>` and `ReadOnlySpan<T>` are used in many key ways in C# and the runtime. Their introduction improves performance without risking safety. C# 14 recognizes the relationship between `ReadOnlySpan<T>`, `Span<T>`, and `T[]`. The span types can be extension method receivers, compose with other conversions, and help with generic type inference scenarios.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Span<T>` and `ReadOnlySpan<T>` are used in many key ways in C# and the runtime. Their introduction improves performance without risking safety. C# 14 recognizes the relationship and supports some conversions between `ReadOnlySpan<T>`, `Span<T>`, and `T[]`. The span types can be extension method receivers, compose with other conversions, and help with generic type inference scenarios.
```

You can find the list of implicit span conversions in the article on [built-in types](../language-reference/builtin-types/built-in-types.md) in the language reference section. You can learn more details by reading the feature specification for [First class span types](~/_csharplang/proposals/first-class-span-types.md).

## Unbound generic types and nameof

> Beginning with C# 14, the argument to `nameof` can be an unbound generic type. For example, `nameof(List<>)` evaluates to `List`. In earlier versions of C#, only closed generic types, such as `List<int>` had to be used to produce `List`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Beginning with C# 14, the argument to `nameof` can be an unbound generic type. For example, `nameof(List<>)` evaluates to `List`. In earlier versions of C#, only closed generic types, such as `List<int>`, could be used to produce `List`.
```

> Beginning with C# 14, the argument to `nameof` can be an unbound generic type. For example, `nameof(List<>)` evaluates to `List`. In earlier versions of C#, only closed generic types, such as `List<int>`, could be used to produce `List`.

Reviewer 2: Is produce the best name here? Retrieve? 

very small comment

Author: evaluate is probably better.
